---
title: 'I think it is time to go back to codelogs'
date: '2020-11-13'
tags: [learning, codelogs]
---

Recently I have been feeling I'm moving in circles in regards to what I want to learn and read. I start watching a video and take some notes, only to abandon it after one attempt. Mostly because I blindly jump right into it, without prior research about its content and quality, only to be disappointed by it.

I think it's high time to bring some structure back -- perhaps not to the extreme point of taking notes **every** day, but at least to have some sort of an overview what I've researched and what is still to be done.

## Topics

- Web design
  - Typography
  - Main concepts
    - Perhaps notes from "Don't make me think"?
- Software (Figma, vector graphics)
- A to Z understanding of React Hooks (it's mostly `useState` for me so far)
- A to... G? understanding of Redux (I kind of get it, but not as deep as I'd like to)

## App ideas

- DB for interesting links
  - Context: I do not expect this to be anything fancy, but at least this will be a real use scenario app, not just a tutorial. Way too often I come upon an interesting article I would like to read later only to save it _somewhere_ and... never find it again. Or 3 months later. I would like to organize that.
  - How it should look like:
    - Make it look **pretty** (looking at you, ekhm, unfinished projects...)
    - SPA?
  - What do I want to use:
    - Let's make a prototype with something like Figma!
    - Research storage options, some sort of DB?
      - Adding / deleting records?
    - Screenshots
      - Keeping images somewhere?
    - Tags + search (connected with DB research)
- Finish the recipe page
- ...and the homepage

## Other

- At some point I should go through my old codelogs: there's too many goodies buried in there
