---
layout: codelog
title:  "2019-06-20"
tags: [javascript, react, jquery, jobhunt]
---

Today I can pat myself on the shoulder, I did good :)

I have started checking the job market to see what is there and how I'm doing. I'm already getting first bites (and rejections too :)). Today is a holiday and I spent most of the day working on the coding challenges I've been sent. Obviously I'm not going to drop any names or exact ideas what they were about, but just as a note to myself:

1. At the first glance all challenges are **always** going to look overwhelming. That's normal. Just stay calm and read the description. And again. And again. Don't touch the code until you really understand what the task is about. If it's an offline challenge, don't hesitate to ask questions. If it's online (and timed), just read it again. Take notes.
2. **SERIOUSLY**, **K**eep **I**t **S**imple, **S**tupid (KISS). Don't go the pathway of "my solution is not robust and universal enough". If it works, it works. Obviously, don't produce half-assed code either. Just stick to the simplest solution and jump to another task. If you're left with extra time, go back, save the simple (working) solution and **only then** start implementing more magic. There are high chances that magic is gonna end up nowhere. It's okay, experimenting is great. But not when you need results within certain time :)
3. I think this should be obvious, but I know myself :) There is no point staying up late. Let yourself rest even if you have the flow and so many ideas to try. Your brain is going to work so much better fresh in the morning.
4. On the same note, take breaks. Go for a walk. Get some coffee. Take a shower. You'd be suprised how many ideas you get when your brain runs on idle :)
5. What helped me in the past: write on a piece of paper "BREATHE, YOU'RE GONNA NAIL IT" and put it next to the keyboard. Helps with coding **and** online interviews!

Today I learned I can do jQuery :D
