---
layout: codelog
title:  "2019-05-14"
tags: [javascript, coercion]
---

## Plan for the day

- [x] Start watching - [Introduction to JavaScript Programming](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/javascript-basics/) by Kyle Simpson.

## Learned today

I believe there is a significant value in going through the basics and filling the knowledge gaps otherwise you might have thought you got covered. That is why I am not skipping the beginner track in FM and watching all classes.

### Statements

This is a statement: `a = b * 2;`. The rule of thumb is, statements end up with a semicolon `;`.

### Expressions

The example statement consists of multiple expressions:

- a literal expression of value `2`,
- two identifier expressions `b` and `a`,
- an arithmetic expression `b * 2`,
- an assignment expression `a = b * 2` (without the semicolon) which is also an ex pression statement (is the last one).

### Order of evaluation

Evaluation happens from left to right. In `b * 2` `b` gets evaluated first.

Binary operators (operators requiring two expressions) have separate rules defining the order of evaluation which can override the general left-to-right rule.

1. Parenthesis
2. Multiplication and division
3. Addition and subtraction

This means that `2 * 2 + 1` will evaluate to `5`, not `6`.
`2 * (2 + 1)` will evaluate to `6`, not `5`.

### Executing a program

Computer needs to know what to do with human-readable statements like `b * 2`. The process of translating it to a form understood by computers is called **compiling** or **interpreting**.

Languages which are interpreted are translated line by line, from top to bottom, every time the program is run.

Other languages are pre-processed ahead of time (compiled), so when the program runs later, it actually is using the compiled version.

JavaScript might be technically labeled as *interpreted* language, because it is procesed every time it's run. This is not entirely true, as JavaScript engine *compiles* the code on the fly and then immediately runs it.

This means JS code is processed **twice**. The following code snippet run as JS code would immediately throw an error about line 2:

```javascript
a = 2;
2 ();
```

In the meantime, a true interpreted / scripted language would first go through line 1 and only then throw an error about line 2.

JavaScript provides two types of errors:

- **static** : something is wrong with the syntax,
- **runtime** : syntax was right, but you tried to do something invalid with it (e.g. assign to a const).

### Explicit / implicit variable coertion

**Variables** do not have types. **Values** have types.

#### Explicit

```javascript
let a = 42;
    typeof a; // Number
    a = String(a);
    typeof a; // String
    a = Number(a);
    typeof a; // Number
    a.toString();
    typeof a; // String
```

#### Implicit

```javascript
let a = 42;
    typeof a; // Number
    a = a + 'a';
    typeof a; // String
```

## Resources list

- [JavaScript for cats](http://jsforcats.com/)
- [Eloquent JavaScript](https://eloquentjavascript.net/)
- [You don't know JS](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS)

## Other resources