---
layout: codelog
title:  "2019-05-15"
---

## Plan for the day

- [x] Finished watching - [Introduction to JavaScript Programming](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/javascript-basics/) by Kyle Simpson.
- [x] Start watching [JavaScript: From Fundamentals to Functional JS, v2](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/js-fundamentals-functional-v2/) by Bianca Gandolfo

## Learned today

### Boolean evaluation

Each value has a inherent boolean value, even if it is not directly a Boolean (`true` / `false`). Those are *truthy* and *falsy* values which, when coerced into a Bool, will evaluate to `true` and `false` repsectively.

The following values are **always** falsy:

- `0` (zero), `-0` (negative zero), `NaN`,
- `""` or `''` (empty string),
- `false`,
- `undefined`,
- `null`.

Everything else is truthy. This includes:

- `function() {}` (empty function declaration),
- `'0'` (a string containing a single zero),
- `'false'` (a string containg word *false*),
- `{}` (empty object).

### Boolean evaluation in conditional statements

```javascript
let a = 'test';

if (a) {
  console.log('I entered IF');
}
```

This code snippet will log "I entered IF" because `a` is a string, which is a truthy value evaluating to `true`.

### Functions

#### Types

Function declaration: `function foo() {}`

Function expressions attached to a variable declaration:

- `var bar = function() {}`
- `var bar = function baz() {}`

#### Parameters vs. arguments

```javascript
function foo(a) {
  console.log(a);
}

const b = 1;
foo(b);
```

`a` is a **parameter** (in function declaration).
`b` is a **argument** (in invoking function).

### Functional programming vs. OOP

If you think about programming as a language, OOP would be nouns while functional programming would be about verbs.

The idea in OOP is to create pure functions, which are predictable and easier to test. In the real world of web development, there are too many side effects (e.g. manipulating DOM). Functional programming also improves readability of the code.

## Resources list

- [www.sitepoint.com/javascript-truthy-falsy](https://www.sitepoint.com/javascript-truthy-falsy/)

## Other resources