---
title: '2019-06-02'
tags: [javascript, closures, scope]
---

## Plan for the day

- [x] Continue watching [JavaScript: The Hard Parts](https://frontendmasters.com/courses/javascript-hard-parts/) by Will Sentance

## Learned today

### Closures

When functions get called, we create a live stote of data (variable environment) for that function's execution context. When it finishes executing, its local memory is deleted (except the returned value).

```javascript
function instructionGenerator() {
  function multiplyBy2(num) {
    return num * 2;
  }
}
let generatedFunc = instructionGenerator();
let result = generatedFunc(3); // 6
```

In the example above, calling `instructionGenerator` returns a function, which gets assigned into `generatedFunc`. `multiplyBy2` is no longer available under that label, it is accessible under `generatedFunc`.

_Where_ you define your functions determines what variables they will have access to when called.

If you try to call inner function outside of where it was defined, it **will not** work:

```javascript
function outer() {
  let counter = 0;
  function incrementCounter() {
    counter++;
  }
  incrementCounter();
}
outer();
incrementCounter(); // ReferenceError: incrementCounter is not defined
```

To keep access to the inner function, you can return it and assign it to a new variable:

```javascript
function outer() {
  let counter = 0;
  function incrementCounter() {
    counter++;
  }
  return incrementedCounter;
}

let myFunction = outer();
myFunction();
```

Again, **where (when) you define a function** (not where you call it) determines what variables it has access to when you call it. In the example above, `incrementCounter` had access to `counter` when it was defined. Behind the scenes, `incrementCounter` also got access to all the surrounding data. Returning it returns the function AND the surrounding data (but only data which is needed).

#### Lexical scope

When a function is defined, it gets a `[[scope]]` property that references the _Variable Environment_ in which it has been defined. When looking for a variable definition, it first looks in its local scope, then in `[[scope]]` and only after that goes down to scopes from the call stack. This is why JS is called _lexically / statically scoped_.

## Resources list

## Other resources
